Three of the Touched declared
war on society.
Right now, every one of you
is suspect.
♪ (DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYS) ♪
AMALIA TRUE:
Inspector Mundi clearly has
a personal interest
in Mary Brighton.
What is Mary's turn?
PENANCE ADAIR:
You get Mary singin',
all the Touched,
they'll all come to us.
You're turning your club
into a business.
Massen thinks the Touched
are a plague.
I think they're a gold mine.
We can be partners.
Are you one of them?
I keep looking for that spark.
Maybe your darkness
is part of her plan.
AMALIA:
I'm going to find Maladie
before Mary's dead.
(GRUNTING)
I'm sorry for your terrible day.
(hooves clopping,
wheels squeaking)
♪
(hooves clopping)
(banging)
(banging continues)
Come on, lads.
Pretty.
(grunting)
(explosion)
(thugs yelling)
(thugs grunting)
Tell the Beggar King
he's done on these docks.
No pay-ups. No shipments.
From here straight
to Dicker's Wharf,
Limehouse belongs
to Bonfire Annie.
Thug:
Let's go.
He decides to argue the case,
or send anyone else to,
there's not a shadow
he can hide in.
Amalia:
Not even this one?
(flame snuffer clattering)
-(groans)
-Amalia: How about that one?
-(thwack)
-(grunting)
-Tell me why I
shouldn't kill you.
-(groans)
-I think you should, uh--
-(flame snuffer clunks)
-Fuck off.
-I've enough snuffer
in here to mummify you.
-The same goes for you,
Mrs. True.
-What?
This scenario's a slight more
violent than advertised.
-You said we were
going to speak.
-We are. This is our language.
-And now you're
no better than her.
-I am much better than her.
-Not if you punch her
in the face--
-Christ!
Don't. All right.
Parlay.
You can speak your peace,
but I will burn us all to death
if I have to hear you bicker.
Penance, you think maybe
you could put out that fire
before it spreads?
-Uh...
-We won't fight.
How in fuck's name
did that girl sneak up on me?
Amalia:
We were here before you were.
The Beggar King's men
aren't notably attentive.
Penance even sneezed once.
-How'd you know I was here?
-I saw it.
The fire, the cart.
It's my "turn."
Ripplings.
(sighs) I do still
want to kill you a bit.
Go ahead. But I'm not covering
for you when she finds out.
I don't know where Maladie is,
and I'm not turning myself in,
-or any kind of--
-I want you to join us.
-At The Orphanage.
-(chuckles softly)
-And you want to kill me.
-We're all contradictions.
You nearly killed
my best friend,
and you saved my life.
-Yeah, that was an accident.
-It was a reflex.
I think it was your
natural instinct.
My natural instinct
is to burn things down.
We can accommodate that.
Is that the mission
you were going on about?
Mary Brighton brings in
all the Touched with her
little lullaby,
-then we overthrow the monarchy.
-Nothing that grand.
Or that small.
I quit Maladie 'cause
I was sick of riddles.
And we'd stopped making money.
You know we're dying.
The Touched.
We're being attacked, locked up,
and thrown in the street.
Not everyone got
such a formidable "turn."
And it's getting worse.
You have enemies you
don't know about yet.
So I should hide with
your sad little gaggle?
I'm fine all by myself.
You still feel it.
Mary's song. You know what
a better world could be like.
It isn't real, that feeling.
It's a fantasy.
You don't trust it
any more than I do.
Might as well have been
that cart full of opium
I just torched.
-Cart full of what?
-(clanging)
Penance:
Don't roll away, lovely.
(coughs) I'll make it up to you.
I fell on my snuffer.
(coughs)
I don't like all that smoke
to come at me.
This hero broke my fall.
My back feels fine.
Tingling, like my hand fingers.
-She found a better world.
-(Penance coughs)
Ugh. That's too many of me.
(coughs)
Amalia, come and see
my soul trapped in a jar.
If you rub it,
I'll give you wishes.
You'll never guess
what the fire was.
-It's opium, my love.
-But it was the air.
But also the cloud
that wanted thunder
but was too gentle to hold it.
Ugh... Bonnie Annie's gone away.
Come on. That's enough
opium for tonight.
Well, maybe just...
Okay, let me check.
You stay here.
(breathing shakily)
Did you feel the thunder
that wasn't?
I feel it all the time.
We have the best jobs.
♪
(hooves clopping,
indistinct chatter outside)
(slaps)
Amalia:
Bonfire Annie, a flat no.
Mary's too shaken to sing.
Myrtle's "turn" is being
incomprehensible.
I am really racking up the wins.
-Oh, and I created Maladie.
-You know you didn't.
-You made a difficult choice.
-She doesn't know that.
I still hardly remember her.
Makes it worse, somehow.
Breathe without talking, please.
(exhales slowly)
All right.
Your lungs are no better
for your wild night out.
You managed not
to rupture a wound.
And Penance?
She did stop vomiting.
She's a strong girl.
But you got no business
bringing her along
on these dangerous excursions,
after what Maladie did to her.
I didn't bring her to Maladie's.
You didn't know
what you were walking into.
Either time. Any time.
Right, you tried to bring
Bonfire Annie into the fold.
That's not a difficult choice.
That's just reckless.
-She's a killer,
for Christ's sake.
-I'm a killer.
You're a soldier,
and Penance isn't one.
-She will be.
-That's a terrible fate
to wish on a friend.
Do you think anything
that's happening has to do
with what I wish?
Just try to keep her from
becoming an opium fiend.
Well, you know young people
these days. They never listen.
Yeah, and they're not
gonna learn it from you.
-Horatio.
-It's not funny.
It's not fun.
Watching you throw
yourself at danger
like you think
it's gonna propose.
Coming here,
-to patch you up
over and over--
-It could be fun.
-Amalia, we've been
through this.
-It was fun.
It was more than fun.
-Every night I have...
-(orphans running)
-Race you!
-(giggling)
I sit at dinner
across from my wife,
and I know something
that she doesn't know.
Something that will
pull her heart out,
and the only comfort
I have or I could give
is the knowledge that
I walked away from it.
You didn't get very far.
Do you think it's easy for me?
Horatio:
Nothing's easy for Amalia True.
She has the weight of the world.
I'm sorry I can't be
more generous about
being your mistake.
(lively piano music playing)
♪ Casey would waltz
with a strawberry blonde ♪
All:
♪ And the band played on ♪
♪ He'd glide 'cross the floor
with a girl he adored ♪
♪ And the band played on ♪
♪ But his brain was so loaded ♪
(sings foreign languages)
♪ Poor girl would shake
with delight ♪
All:
♪ He'd ne'er leave the girl
with the strawberry curls ♪
-♪ And the band played on... ♪
-(voices trail off)
No need to stop
on my account, please.
Is there a song you'd like,
Mrs. True?
None you'd know,
but keep playing.
-(speaks foreign languages)
-Mrs. True needs
a different kind of song.
I should be working
to get that voice back.
Oh, let her play.
Can I not be made
the villain of the piece?
I said keep playing.
The other song will come
when it comes.
I doubt a little fun
will do anything but help.
Waiting's only painful when
you're not doing anything else.
The gospel of Amalia True,
patron saint of patience,
and ironically, fist-punching.
Good morning.
Miss Adair,
you're surprisingly
sprightly this morning.
I had a vision in the night
in between vomits.
First time Mary sang in public,
only the Touched that were
in the room could hear it.
But next time, we'll make
Mary's voice loud enough
that it can be heard by Touched
across the city--
You say Candlemas Park
is the place, right?
It's open on all sides,
and there's the--
Penance:
And it's right in
the center of the city.
But I was noticing last night
that the city is loud.
Even pure truth
would choke on the din.
But every voice
is just vibrations,
and an electric converter
could make those vibrations
a lot bigger.
Penance Adair, have you just
invented the amplifier?
Ah, you gave it away!
And you gave it
a very dull name.
I'll be calling it
"The Brightener."
It's a play on words
involving your name.
(laughs) Well, thanks.
Um, that's...
Um, I-I don't know what it is.
Oh, it, um...
amplifies the sound waves.
It-it'll make your voice
heard for miles,
or near a mile, I think.
They're-they're awful boxy.
Design elements usually
come later on.
But all I need
is some copper wire,
and we'll have some prototypes.
I say we go to the park
later on this evening,
and we just run some tests.
And to think I slept.
You always were a lightweight.
(indistinct chatter)
♪
Look, I think I am
getting closer to it.
I mean, I--
I feel little moments.
You don't have to
give me a status report
every time you see me.
Just because you can enjoy
yourself and be entertaining
doesn't mean you weren't
kidnapped a week ago.
It'll come when it comes.
Has there been any word
of Maladie?
I imagine she's
licking her wounds.
Or punching them.
And Bonfire Annie?
Heard you were trying
to recruit her last night.
-Hello, miss.
-Amalia: Does that bother you?
-Get out.
-Mary: I wish I'd been told.
If I turned a corner
and there she was--
I didn't want to worry you
for nothing.
And nothing is what
came of it, so...
You're keeping secrets.
Every woman keeps secrets.
Every Touched woman
keeps a great deal more.
(laughs softly)
That's a dodge.
Was there a question?
I've asked the girls
what this place is,
and what we're
meant to be doing.
And they all have
different answers.
I can sense that
there's something--
Some sort of mission beyond
keeping each other safe.
But it's all a bit vague.
What is it you're looking for?
A conspiracy? A cult?
-I'm not asking you
to cut off your toes.
-I'm looking for you.
-I'm right here.
-Are you?
Three years ago,
I woke up knowing things
that I shouldn't,
and was declared insane.
Which for a time,
I thought I was.
So, yes, I keep secrets.
I also drink when I shouldn't,
fight when I needn't,
and fuck men whose names
I do not learn.
I get nervous in crowds.
I see things that aren't there.
When I meet someone,
the first thing I think of
is how to kill them.
I do have some good qualities.
(chuckles softly)
I genuinely like horses.
What is it you know
that you shouldn't?
You want me to sing so that
more people will come here?
Maybe I'm struggling because
I don't know if they should.
(footsteps departing)
(passionate moaning)
(both groaning)
(groaning crescendos)
Hugo:
Yes! Now!
Tell me!
(both groaning loudly)
Nine, forty-two
and eleven seconds!
(panting)
(speaking French)
Wh-where's the purple light?
You're supposed to fill
the room with light
when you spend.
I don't fill the room--
I wanted purple light!
Not Greenwich Mean Time.
Uh, I know the time.
-(sniffs, exhales)
-No one hires
the Touched no more.
Hugo, sorry to barge in.
I just, I think--
I think we're being
very, um...
Augie, this is Dominique.
She's been auditioning.
Oh. I see. No, I see, I see.
Best of luck.
(softly): Do you--
Do you audition all the girls?
Uh, and the boys.
I've got a set of, uh,
boy-girl twins
who are bonded in
the most fascinating way.
-If you spank one of them,
the other--
-Oh, Hugo...
I'm just not sure I can be
involved with this.
It's all signed and sealed,
old boy.
But you haven't filed them yet
with the--
with the company's house.
-Well, the moment
they were signed.
-What, 4:00 AM?
The day they were signed.
You are the sole proprietor
of the Ferryman's Club,
and turning a pretty profit
to boot.
-He's boss.
-He is boss.
Profit? Already?
I paid this all off privately
before we started.
There's just, uh, the staff,
the talent, and, uh,
our generous salaries.
-Salaries?
-I know. Isn't it common?
(laughs)
We dwell amongst
the nouveau riche.
(chuckles)
I audition to you?
Hugo. Hugo! Hugo...
-If Lavinia finds out...
-She won't.
You haven't invested a penny.
And the contracts
are under seal.
Uh, uh, don't smile.
You have mystique.
The Touched are her
personal cause.
-Lavinia, if she
finds out what you...
-Your next candidate.
-We... No, you
are making them do--
-Paying them to do.
-Paying me to do.
-Voice (echoing): Ask him...
ask him for housing...
And housing them.
Quiet, you.
-And keeping them safe.
-Hugo, this isn't
a schoolyard prank.
There are things
being done here
that are illegal.
And quite, quite
possibly immoral.
Speaking of which, uh,
Charlotte says hello.
-Uh, so does Lufima.
-Hugo.
-You wouldn't...
-There you are.
Augie:
Wh-wha-what I did
that night
was not the conduct
of a gentleman, I know.
But w-- We didn't--
We didn't break any laws.
-That I know of.
-What you did,
they don't have laws for.
Then I didn't break any.
Look, just give it a try.
I'm all alone here, Augie.
I-I can't do all this
all by myself.
I don't have the time.
-Nine forty--
-No!
Everything's just moving
much too fast.
I'm, I'm sorry
I filed the papers,
but I had to use up
a lot of favors,
and I can't help--
I-- Of course, I will.
I'll-I'll set you free.
Just give me time.
And, and meanwhile,
enjoy being in charge for a bit,
-'cause I have a meeting.
-No-- In charge?
Well, you don't have to
audition anyone. Just...
look important.
Say no a lot. Roma!
Where the hell
is my purple light?
You sent me a pocket watch.
(whispering):
And can you get those
fucking contracts filed now?
Um...
No?
Below!
Mrs. Beechum:
Ronald will have those
maple branches pruned
before you get back.
This union business
should only take a few days.
Unions is just
organized laziness,
if you don't mind my saying.
Should be grateful for a wage
and your guiding hand.
What the hell is all this?
We're installing a telephone,
not a trapeze.
I'll make sure
they're out of sight.
The degradation of progress.
We build homes to keep
other people out,
and then build machines
to let them all in.
Well, it will help with ordering
from the butchers and such.
-Speed it up.
-Yes, because the measure
of a thing's worth
is how quickly it arrives.
Well, if you was to come
unexpectedly, or with company...
It's only the under-butler
heard you talking to Parkins
about a widow you'd met.
A friend of Miss Bidlow's.
You'll fire him yourself?
Of course, sir.
And Mrs. Beechum,
you will give up
your romantic yen
for a mistress.
This house has all
the company I can abide.
♪
(grunts)
Little Annie Carbey,
the Bonfire of Limehouse.
I've known her since
she was a dusky urchin,
following her old man around
when he collected
for the Top Hat Lads.
Now, she's got a "turn."
A terrible fuckin' "turn."
Fire. And what have you got
that can compete with that?
You got fucking guns!
People saw you running.
By the light of
my shipment ablaze,
people saw the Beggar King's
men on the run
from a fucking girl!
Now, Mr. Odium here
wanted to take you for
a walk along the Thames,
'cause he knows that when
you wear my brand,
what you do reflects on me.
I circled back, but she'd gone.
And the other ladies
were there.
-Other ladies?
-The widow.
And the science one.
She had a horrible device.
Well, I-I didn't know
if they were gonna...
-I'll do better.
-Shh, shh, shh,
Ooh...
Oh, no.
How new that scar is.
No, no. You're a pup!
Ha! Now,
a man carrying my mark
for eight years,
I'd expect him to
stand his ground.
Maybe he's become tired
of wearing my mark. Huh?
Maybe it's become a burden,
my brand.
-We wasn't told what to expect.
-Oh.
Pain and disgrace.
But it's all right.
-'Cause you're expecting it.
-(grunts)
-(flesh slicing)
-(screaming)
-(slicing)
So, what the fuck is
Mrs. True up to now?
(thug groaning)
♪
(phone ringing)
-(indistinct chatter)
-(typewriters clacking)
(phone ringing)
You know about this?
Anyone see who left this?
(phone ringing)
Below!
Mrs. Beechum:
Try the attic,
and make sure
they're out of sight!
(distant hammering)
Humph. "Try the attic."
Try not telling me
my business, how about?
(distant hammering)
(distant indistinct chatter)
(thuds softly)
(distant chittering)
(loud bang)
(chittering)
-Don't go near the dogs.
-(gasps)
They've gone rabid.
Try around here.
(squeaks open)
Can you believe that man?
"Electronics is nothing
for a girl to be dabbling in."
Have you ever seen
me dabble, Myrtle?
I'll dabble his face.
Señora  True?
What does it say?
(speaks foreign languages)
Penance:
That's not our address.
Barmaid:
What's your preference?
We only got two on tap.
A pint of the dark.
(liquid pouring)
-(indistinct chatter)
-Ladies.
-Dr. Cousens. What a treat.
-I'm sorry. Have we met?
Oh, yes. As it happens,
I promised you
your own carriage.
And at last, it's here.
Huh. I never thought
you meant it.
Ah, I never lie.
I never boast.
(chuckles)
As it happens, a wealthy patient
is waiting for you within.
A new client, of whom
you're not remotely afraid.
Hush, Colonel.
Don't take away his fear.
He might need it.
-(door closes)
-(latch clicks)
Are you afraid?
It's well known
how you pay your doctors.
They were compensated in kind
for the services they provided.
You don't mess about
with brains,
you're all right.
You know who I work with?
Everyone knows the Beggar King
has a doctor on call
with healing hands.
Yes, I know. Mrs. True.
But this ain't about her.
It's about the gift she gave me.
And if I heal you,
how do I know you won't--
What, strike you down
to get at Molly?
If you're frettin' on that,
you two must be...
dear friends.
Oh, you do go back a ways.
We all do.
Except I don't
remember you so well.
Although there was a Black
in a doctor's coat,
which I thought
my mind made up.
No...
I'm real.
Do you want to
show me the wound?
Yes, sir, doctor, sir.
Whew.
(inhales sharply)
It's a persistent
little pinhole.
Kiss it better.
Hmm. Still a bullet
fragment in there.
I'll have to take it out
before I can help you.
This is going to hurt.
Promise?
(liquid sloshing)
(gasps sharply)
(breathing heavily, groaning)
Man gave me this.
I was told to wait
two hours. Sorry.
And another whiskey.
Frank:
Swann.
-Not bad on the eyes.
-Yeah, all right, though.
Hope we aren't in trouble.
(giggling)
(indistinct chatter)
♪
(indistinct chatter, laughter)
(door squeaks open)
Sometimes I think
you want to get caught.
-Barmaid told me you were here.
-Did she?
Mmm, no, no.
She and I are bosom friends.
I've known her since half noon.
She wouldn't squidge on me.
One day, you're gonna
walk into a place
that don't think
you're charming.
Don't think your
money's charming.
-My money is adorable.
-What are you doing, Swann?
What are you spending
your day doing
with this panto Moriarty crap?
This what you think
a job feels like?
I'm-- I'm worked to the bone,
Inspector.
Whilst I've had nothing of worth
from you about Amalia True,
or The Orphanage.
Do you know what it cost
to arrange that raid?
What do you think I'll find,
hmm?
A bunch of girls longing
to leave the safety
of their community
-to come whoring for you?
-Uh, a few.
You do have a talent for it.
What about Mary Brighton?
Her "turn," I mean.
I told you. It's a song.
Only the Touched can hear it.
It makes 'em feel happy.
Amalia True risks
life and limb for a lullaby.
-No, there's more.
-Mary don't know anything
about Mrs. True's plans.
Mary left you on
your wedding day.
I think it's safe to say
she does keep things from you.
She did you a favor, of course.
(grunts)
Such a dramatic disappointment.
No one would question you
not rushing to the altar
-a second time.
-(liquid pouring)
I often wonder,
did she realize she could never
give you what you wanted,
or did she find out I was?
I was drunk!
I was blind drunk.
The Ferryman's
is a massive venture.
More even than I'd hoped.
But it depends on an
immeasurable level of change.
Amalia True?
I do not believe
she has any interest
in giving the Touched
a safe haven. Do you?
No.
Seeing the future...
that ain't her whole story.
-She has a purpose.
-And now she has Mary.
-Why?
-(footsteps approaching)
(laughing)
-(indistinct chatter)
-(door slams)
Look at you.
A shadow afraid of shadows.
Such a lonely life.
Yeah?
Where are all your friends then?
-The first time, Frank.
-(door slams)
You were drunk the first time.
-(hooves clopping)
-(indistinct chatter)
(huffs)
My toes itch.
The ones you've got,
or the ones you haven't?
Both.
(energy buzzing)
(breathing shakily)
The new moon has
made me a virgin.
-There's still some infection
on the surface.
-(chuckling)
Here. Take two of these a day,
and keep it clean.
(grunts)
(bullet clinking)
Is this what Molly's
atonement looked like?
You think it's enough?
I think you blame her for
something she couldn't control.
I wonder who you'll blame
when the time comes.
On you go.
Go? This is my carri...
Oh.
(bullet clatters)
(clattering)
Don't scratch at it.
(clinks)
-(sizzling)
-(clinks)
-(distant yelling)
-(distant chains clanking)
-(footsteps approaching)
-(cell clangs open)
Winemar Kroos, get up.
-What's this?
-Shut your cunt and come on.
Shoot up a new lock
when they let you out.
You're the luckiest fuck
in the world.
-Can I please have my weapon?
-Shut it!
I need it!
Hanging in the market
in broad daylight.
Been out there a while
by the state of it.
I have no idea
how many more there are.
Oh, I didn't know about these.
I mean, I'm out and about
more than most.
-I feel like I should have seen.
-Penance: Mmm.
You can see now.
Time for a visit.
Been long since you and I
did a proper ladies' out,
isn't it?
It has, as that.
♪
-(horse neighs)
-(indistinct chatter)
♪
(knocking on door)
Yes! Yes, I'm coming!
(sighs)
-(rumbling)
-(whirring)
-Oh!
-(door bangs open)
Who are you?
What on Earth is this all about?
-(thwacks)
-(thuds)
-(grunts)
(grunts)
(growling)
(electricity buzzing)
(thuds)
Fuck a drumstick, he's ugly.
Is this one of those guys
what come after Myrtle?
Amalia:
He was.
(electricity buzzing)
Lucy:
What is it?
Get handsome to The Orphanage
and take grandmother with you.
-You need fare?
-No, no, no, no. I've got money.
It's not from stealing.
We need to know everything
that they've been doing.
Ah, Désirée will
get it out of her.
Or I will.
Is Penance still doing
her what's-it test?
Yes. We need to be set up
the day Mary is ready to sing.
I'll meet Penance
in the park at dusk.
Where are you going?
Miss Bidlow needs to see this.
(knocking on door)
Frank.
-Hi.
-I, uh...
I, um, didn't mean
for you to rush over.
I don't want to waste
your time.
Oh, no, I've got other people
doing that, thanks.
-But you're not in any...
-No, no, no.
No. Noth-- nothing dire.
Just, um...
Well, I... I, I don't suppose
that Maladie's been, um,
oh, you know, captured
and sent off to Australia.
Did, did something happen?
Is-is Mrs. True up to something?
I mean, you, you can tell me.
It's unofficial, of course.
No. It's just stranger
than I expected,
you know, being around
so many of the Touched.
It's...
My, my...
my song used to be mine.
It was like a little...
little piece of comfort.
But then, now that
I've gone public, it just...
I don't...
I don't know how
to find that...
-voice that I have.
-Uh...
I could-- I could--
I could find you a place.
You know I've got
that, the spare room,
if there, there's nothing else.
-And I, I wouldn't try to--
-No, it's...
I know you wouldn't.
I, I-- Frank, I didn't mean it--
it's, uh...
As, as a gentleman,
I know that you wouldn't.
But also as a man who...
Frank...
You're a good man.
But there's a part
of you that you hate.
I, I won-- I won't say any more.
Except that...
I will never hate you.
Not for who you are.
You'll always be the man that
I call when there's trouble,
and when there's
not trouble, I guess.
-Can I ask you for something?
-Of course.
N-next time you sing,
not that,
that kind of singing...
I-I'd like to be there.
You know that only
the Touched can hear it.
Yeah, I want to feel like,
'cause at least just
give it a go.
People change.
At the worst, I'll watch.
It's been a long while
since I've seen you on a stage.
Arrangements have
already been made,
and we, uh--
-Forgive us, we have to begin.
-Of course, of course.
I got the gist
on my telephone.
What are the confidence levels
on the investment's return?
Regrettably, we are among those
who cannot see into the future.
But we do have a clearer
view of the field.
It appears the new players
are in motion.
We need to get
those fliers taken down.
-They could be all over London.
-Leave them.
I'll have someone
watch the house
in case anyone turns up,
innocent or otherwise.
-What can I do?
-I need to know
who owns the building.
I can get that information
for you in a day or so.
Although I doubt
it will reveal much.
What about Mary Brighton?
Is she doing her siren call,
or what have you?
Amalia:
I'm not sure.
She's been struggling.
We're doing the test
this evening, in the park.
If Mary can find her voice,
we'll make sure it's heard.
Distorted voice:
What did you tell them?
What...
What? What--
N-nothing. I-I never said--
-What did you tell them?!
-I, I, I, s-swear.
I, I didn't tell
anyone anything.
I didn't!
Désirée:
Well, now that your blood is up,
-how's about we start then?
-(clattering)
-(metal clanging)
-(whimpers)
Who are all you people?
We're the people
who answer your flier.
Well, I'm not answering
any of your questions.
Who do you work for?
A man. Tall. Had a fur coat.
Well-spoken but not too posh.
You think they'd send
the boss around,
showin' his face?
What do they do to the girls?
Experiments, I think.
-Why you?
-They knowed about
my tragedy, I guess.
About my daughter,
and all the suffering.
Did you hear a name?
Water. She made
everything water.
Any liquid.
She did it with wine,
which is the opposite
of Jesus. (laughs)
Plus, it cost me two shillings.
There was a well,
made everyone sick.
She fixed that,
but that's not for
a person to do.
But she was never afraid of it.
She stopped being
afraid of anything.
She would just say,
"Water is life."
Sitting up nights
with her needlework,
just knowing something.
Sitting and knowing.
A young man saw it, too.
It was unnatural.
My heart bleeding for the burden
on, uh, on, on me.
And she went for a bath.
And it was so hot.
It was so hard to...
hold her down like that
'cause she didn't understand.
She was splashing and struggling
and trying to cry out.
I could see it all 'cause
she made the water so clear.
(exhales sharply)
I had to bear that.
I had to be strong...
till she stopped.
Till she was free.
Her and the child inside her.
-(yells)
-Lucy!
Let go of me!
Lucy, Lucy, Lucy, Lucy, Lucy.
Abominations!
Abominations, all of you!
-(speaks foreign languages)
-You need to--
(electricity buzzing)
(sighs)
(exhales)
Lucy's "turn" came sudden.
She didn't know
she was Touched
till she lifted her baby boy
up from his bassinet.
Six months old
and the first person
to ever love her back.
And all his bones broke
before he could even
make a sound.
I don't think
she would hurt ya.
We should call in the law.
She confessed to murder
in front of seven people.
Yeah, seven Touched people.
What policeman's gonna care?
Mundi.
Your brightener worked a charm.
That's good news.
Aye. It needs some tinkerin'.
But I'm not in much
of a mind right now.
We'll have to send word to True.
Tell her we're not
going to the park.
Mary:
Yes, we are.
Sorry?
We are going to the park.
I'm ready.
Will this be workin'?
Yes, ma'am.
Tell Inspector Mundi to come.
Let everyone know,
especially Lucy.
How many?
What, love?
Girls...
that'll never hear Mary's song.
We should have
asked her how many.
(hooves clopping)
♪
(clattering)
(screams)
(carriage door thudding)
(growls)
(tense music playing)
(footsteps splashing)
(growls)
-(gasps)
-(Odium yells)
(Odium yells)
(grunting)
(choking)
-(cracking)
-(screaming)
(yells)
(grunting, panting)
(footsteps thudding above)
(bubbling)
(yells)
♪
(grunts)
(growling)
(yells)
-(Odium yells)
-(Amalia gasps)
(grunting)
(yells)
(chain clanging)
(exhales)
(water splashing)
(gasping)
(spits, pants)
(neighs)
♪
(horse snorts)
Is it that you just
hate dresses?
Someone overstepped.
-How many people
do you need for a test?
-Oh, it's not a test.
♪
-(clanks)
-(brightener buzzing)
(buzzing)
(sighs)
I love them, you know.
-Who?
-Dresses.
I think they're just wonderful.
(sings in foreign language)
(continues singing
in foreign language)
-(silence)
-(wind blowing)
(singing continues)
(gunshot)
(bullets firing)
-(screams)
-(gasping)
(firing)
(gasping, yelling)
(Amalia panting)
(Frank yelling)
(grunts)
(screams):
No!
(firing continues)
(yells)
♪
(sobbing softly)
(sobbing)
(panting)
♪
(fire crackling)
(BELL TOLLS)
AMALIA TRUE: Whoever did have
Mary Brighton killed
was making a public statement.
The longer we wait to find
the killer...
the greater the chance
we never do.
♪ (DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYS) ♪
AMALIA:
I was left here
with nothing but a mission
I was never actually given.
PENANCE ADAIR: You know better
than anyone what pain does.
You don't want more violence.
ANNIE CARBEY:
This is London, doctor.
There's always more.
HARRIET KAUR: How are we ever
gonna see justice
if we're not a part of justice?
Is vengeance going to make
the world better?
LORD MASSEN:
You are a casualty of war.
AMALIA: So we're at war.
LAURA DONNELLY:
Amalia finds herself...
(SCREAMS)
...suddenly thrown into a lake,
and looks up to find
that it's Odium standing there.
And within moments, she sees
Odium walk on the water.
That brings on a fight of a kind
that I have certainly
never seen myself on a screen.
ROWLEY IRLAM: This is,
without a doubt, I would say,
probably the most
challenging sequence
of the whole season.
At the beginning
of the sequence,
we're with Amalia, and she falls
out of the door, into a lake.
And then, our character, Odium,
who's played by Martyn Ford,
who is absolutely massive.
He's-- He weighs about
350 pounds. The guy's huge.
He starts to walk into the lake,
or so we think,
until you suddenly realize
he's walking on water.
JANE ESPENSON: Odium
is established in the pilot,
as someone who works
for the Beggar King.
And the Beggar King
offhandedly says,
"You cannot get
that man in a bath."
And it isn't until episode three
that you learns what he means.
That he literally
can't get into water.
The writing staff observed that,
"Wow. If he got in a fight
with someone on water,
he could just whack-a-mole them.
He could just stomp them down
every time they
came up for air."
And that observation
led to this fight.
(GRUNTS)
♪ (TENSE MUSIC PLAYS) ♪
DONNELLY:
The tension in that fight
is that Amalia
can't come up above water,
or she's going to be
beaten by Odium.
And if she receives one or two
hits from a guy that size,
then she's in real trouble.
But at the same time of course,
she can't stay
underwater either,
because she can't breathe.
So, it's this constantly
trying to get away,
where her enemy
has all of the power,
and all of the advantage.
-(GASPS)
-(GRUNTS)
JOHNNY HAN: From
the moment we got the scripts,
we were kind of excited
it was in episode three
and not one,
because it gave us a little bit
of time to figure it out.
You know, at first, we were
stressing out, 'cause it's like,
"Oh, gosh. This is so like...
This is difficult."
We didn't want Odium basically
to try to just drown Amalia.
Amalia's a fighter
and she's smart.
And she's gonna figure
her way out of things.
IRLAM: We're always
looking to find the moments
that make people go,
"Wow, that's cool."
Whether it's within a fight,
or whether it's
within a carriage chase,
within a water sequence.
We're always trying to find
something that the audience
hopefully hasn't seen before.
HAN: Our stunts team,
led by Rowley,
choreographed this
amazing sequence,
that was full of wirework
and incredible stunts.
Amalia climbing on top of Odium,
and toppling him like a tree.
And... visual effects
is figuring out,
"All right, how are we
even gonna film this?
Can we shoot it in the lake?"
We decide no.
'Cause it turns out
it's gonna be February,
and it's gonna be frozen.
IRLAM: Rolling, rolling. Hold
your breath underwater, please.
HAN: We decided on a tank that's
specially designed for filming,
and to wrap the whole tank
in green screen on all sides...
IRLAM: And three, two, one...
(YELLS)
HAN: ...so that we could use
the green screen water tank,
and put our footage of the lake
beyond the tank.
IRLAM: Action!
(YELLS)
We had to... put a deck
in that was literally five mil
beneath the surface to make it
look like Martyn Ford's
walking on water.
In addition, we put him
in a harness and we flew him.
And so,
he faked walking on water.
It was a massive deal
to try and make this work.
HAN: With Odium, we didn't just
want the feeling of someone
walking on a solid platform.
We feel kinda,
has been done.
His power is that
he can affect water
with this field around him.
It's not like he's got
feet that float,
it's simply that the water,
when it comes near him,
behaves differently.
We looked at references
of insects that are light enough
to crawl on the water.
We looked at
non-Newtonian fluids,
where basically, if you run
across it fast enough,
it stays solid,
but if you stop, you'll sink.
We actually went
to a trampoline park,
and I phone-recorded
what we were doing.
We watch it, we're like,
"Okay, you know,
that's a good example
of when his feet land."
And you get a sense
of the ground rippling out.
And we're like,
"Hey, that's pretty cool.
Let's try to do that."
(GASPS)
(GRUNTS)
IRLAM: That's great, Laura.
Well done.
DONNELLY: It was the most
incredible thing to shoot.
Rowley is wonderful.
Rowley allows me to do loads
of stunts, and I like that.
Uh, he-- yeah, he trusts me
and I trust him implicitly.
We started training for that,
by getting me used
to being under the water,
and using
the breathing apparatus.
IRLAM:
Laura was amazing, you know.
We did lots
of scuba training with her,
so we took her
to the bottom of the tank.
You know, and we had her
with two scuba divers
down at, um, 20 feet.
Then she would literally swim
from one diver to the other.
DONNELLY: That was
a steep learning curve.
You know, it was just
a few days of taking big steps.
Um, but then when it came
to the actual shooting of it,
I just felt completely
comfortable in it.
To be honest, I think I was
mostly running on adrenaline
for a couple of weeks. It was--
It was so much fun. (CHUCKLES)
IRLAM: Are you ready, guys?
Head in underwater, please.
DONNELLY:
Helen, my stunt double,
will always do the first take
of any stunt or fight,
or anything like that.
IRLAM: Good.
DONNELLY: Just to make sure
that everybody gets an idea
of how it should be done.
And that, you know,
there's one take
that is done incredibly well,
because she's amazing
at what she does.
IRLAM: Three, two, one. Action!
(ODIUM YELLS)
DONNELLY: And then, I get
to do pretty much everything
-after that.
-IRLAM: And pull!
(GROANING)
DONNELLY: It's wonderful,
because it gives me such
confidence to know that
they have confidence in me,
to get those shots.
(STRAINING)
-(GRUNTING)
-(PANTING)
-(INHALES)
-(YELLS)
IRLAM: We've got one shot
where Martyn's lying
on the water in a harness,
Laura's underneath him,
upside down.
And an awful lot of people
cannot hang upside down in water
without water
going up their nose.
You know, and it's a-- it's
an iconic moment in our show.
DONNELLY: You know, when
upside down in the water...
with no-- like with, you know,
your nose filling with water--
your head filling with water,
and trying to hold your breath,
while you're, you know, holding
a chain around somebody's neck
just long enough
that they pass out, is a--
it's a challenge.
But, um...
It was-- It's one
of my favorite things
that I've ever filmed.
IRLAM: ...fourteen, and fifteen.
Laura, swim away.
(GASPS)
DONNELLY: I just am constantly
looking forward to what
they've got lined up
for me next. (CHUCKLES)